tuna has become the victim of its own
success demand for bluefin tuna in
particular has been sharply increasing
in recent times in part because of the
popularity of Japanese cuisine the
supply however is no longer able to keep
up overfishing threatens to diminish it
even further an agreement reached at a
recent international conference will
regulate the catch of wild bluefin tuna
and the Pacific those who signed on hope
it isn't too late well if anyone should
be concerned about the supply as the
Japanese they consume about 70 percent
of the world's Pacific bluefin tuna a
Japanese University has come up with a
way of taking pressure off the fish at
sea by breeding Bluefins from fertilized
eggs raised on farms customers have been
flowing into this new restaurant ever
since it opened a month ago they're all
waiting in line for a completely new
culinary experience the main part of the
menu here is bluefin tuna
but not just any bluefin tuna it's all
farm bred and while the taste doesn't
taste any different from a fresh catch
from the sea so easily it's easy to eat
and taste good the Toro fatty tuna is
imperil to that it's a famous skinny
fish market
the restaurant is run by Kinki
University as a way of finding out if
consumers will take a liking to the
farm-raised fish the tuna on the menu
was born and raised at the school's
experimental farm in Wakayama Prefecture
since 1970 its Fisheries lab has been
working to farm raised tuna without
using wild stock there's a cooler there
a fish of this size is about three
months old
tokihiko okada has the institution he's
been involved in the research since his
undergraduate days Methos to breed sea
bream and yellowtail had already been
established when he joined the project
tuna was more difficult the fish are
especially sensitive a tuna would react
to even subtle noises or light and head
to its demise in the nets of a pen Okada
and his fellow researchers succeeded in
avoiding that outcome by almost doubling
the size of the pen and changing the
shape from cuboid to cylindrical after
32 years the team finally succeeded in
farm breeding tuna from fertilized eggs
to full-grown fish in 2002 the next
goals were bringing down costs and
developing feed to create a better
consistency tuna swim vigorously and
typically consume large amounts of fish
such as horse mackerel and mackerel
but using fish for feed is costly
mixed beat offers an alternative the
researchers tried various combinations
of vitamins and fish meals they had a
hard time getting tuna to accept that
way of eating at first
Macario so glucose also if something
other than the taste of the feed such as
color or shape can whetted in as
appetite we may be able to come up with
a solution
well one of our chi has a stink about a
period of 3 to 5 years usually is
necessary for a tuna to become an adult
that can be shipped tuna on the farm our
bread on the mixed feed until they reach
the age of three months the researchers
are investigating how to extend the use
of the mixed feed by trying alternative
contents so far the longest they've been
able to nourish a fish with only this
has been three years
another avenue for boosting production
could be genetic analysis last year the
team identified a gene of the bluefin
tuna that can accelerate growth later
this year they plan to select individual
tuna that have the gene and start
breeding them on the farm the University
is inviting private firms to participate
as a way of expanding production the
school itself is overseeing the hatching
of bluefin tuna eggs the larvae grow
into fry and are sold to a wholesale
breeder outside the school the breeder
keeps the fry for about three months
when the younglings grow to about 30
centimetres they're sold to tuna farmers
when they reach adulthood the fish are
ready to go to market the company that
deals with younglings has a facility in
Nagasaki prefecture kaizo Fukuda is now
in the fourth year of raising fry he
says the survival rate has increased but
it's still below 50%
madam Cindy Momo you see on the fish
have only two ways of showing their
condition vigorously eating will be more
silently dying on about me Thea got 90
hi my mother I tell breeders to watch
the fish constantly each fish is sending
a particular message without exception
we have to train people to read the
signals 7,000 of the University born
tuna are shipped market annually within
two years the institution intends to
further develop as technology with
support from the government that should
allow it to eventually increase the
number of farm bred fish to 100,000 per
year
to that end it set up a wholly-owned
firm that promotes everything from
research all the way to the sale of farm
breath tuna hey Melissa
what would you think about starting a
farm in Malaysia overseas production is
under consideration to ensure a steady
supply through the use of diverse
locales or to give your son toy I had
this kind of quality
I hope to create alliances with major
businesses and expand a number of farms
I hope our tuna farming will all spread
across the globe again and then second
eco thought I only submit a kadai not
doing all - from farms - kitchens if the
university project can succeed it will
earn the appreciation of diners around
the world and in their own way perhaps
even the thanks of the tuna population
at sea